link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-injured-in-kolkata-residential-blast-1-detained-nia-launches-probes-101784376592386.html
Article information: One person was injured in a blast in a residential building in Kolkata’s New Town on late Friday evening, a team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached the scene on Saturday.Soon after the incident, local police, the state police’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and sleuths from the Bidhannagar city police detective department rushed to the spot.CCTV footage showed a man entering one of the ground-floor rooms of a three-storey building at South Narayanpur in New Town with a jute bag. An explosion took place moments after the man left the house. The blast damaged two adjacent ground-floor flats, along with walls, doors and windows, police said.Police also recovered two explosives from the room and detained one person for questioning.“One person was injured when a concrete chunk fell on his head after the blast. Two crude bombs have been recovered from the spot. Investigation is going on,” said an officer. “One person has been detained for questioning,” the officer added.Also Read:3-year-old found dead in Delhi; neighbour held, sexual assault suspectedPeople familiar with the matter said that the flat owner, Zulfikar Ansari rented the room to Md Shamim on July 15. Police said Shamim was on the run, and the probe is underway.“The tenant Md Shamim came to me through a local broker whom I knew. I had told Shamim that he could start staying once he pays the advance. He took the keys to clean the flat. He had asked a man to keep the bag inside the room on Friday evening,” Ansari said.“There was a deafening sound and there was smoke everywhere. Families live in the other ground-floor flats, including three children. Luckily, they had gone for tuition classes around that time. Else they could have been injured,” said Md Sajid, a resident.The NIA reached the scene on Saturday and collected samples for forensic analysis to find out the explosives used.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14km-traffic-jam-after-33kv-power-line-collapses-on-delhi-jaipur-expressway-101784372030479.html
Article information: Hundreds of commuters including at least five ambulances were trapped in a severe traffic blockade on Delhi-Jaipur expressway triggered from sudden collapse of a 66kV power transmission line across it near Narsinghpur on Saturday evening, said police.Also read: Video: Woman throws ink at Abhijeet Dipke as he sits on hunger strike after Sonam Wangchuk's 'removal'The incident took place around 3.30pm and resulted in at least a 16-kilometres long jam on both the carriageways of the expressway between the cloverleaf intersection near Kherki Daula and Rajiv chowk.Traffic police have reached the spot and were involved in diverting the traffic to other routes.Also read: Sky is no longer the limit: Vikram-1 launch is a leap for India's private space sectorInspector Manoj, (traffic-II), said that they were trying to remove the transmission wires with the help of HVPNL and DHBVNL officials.“We are diverting traffic to Southern Peripheral Road, Dwarka Expressway and other routes,” he said.Also read: In race to become Ram Temple Trust's first CEO, retired bureaucrats dominate applicant poolCommuters said that both the carriageways and the service lanes were blocked and no vehicles were able to cross it. Traffic police personnels have placed stacks of tyre on the expressway as emergency barricades to stop any vehicles from crossing it.Gugugram traffic police issued an advisory and said that due to a “broken high-voltage power line near Indian Oil Petrol Pump, Narsinghpur, traffic has been temporarily stopped on both the Delhi–Jaipur and Jaipur–Delhi carriageways of NH-48 and the service road.”“Commuters are advised to use the alternate routes as mentioned and follow the directions of traffic police. We regret the inconvenience,” it added.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-keen-on-ncps-merger-but-sunetra-pawar-son-parth-not-in-favour-101784336127377.html
Article information: Speculation about the merger of the Nationalist Congress Party and the Nationalist Congress Party (Sharadchandra Pawar) mounted on Friday as people aware of details said the Bharatiya Janata Party was keen on shoring up the strength of the National Democratic Alliance and was in favour of the merger of the two outfits.Currently, the NCP is part of the NDA and the NCP (SP) is part of the Opposition’s INDIA bloc. To be sure, NCP chief Sunetra Pawar and her elder son, Rajya Sabha MP Parth Pawar, are not in favour of a merger, said a close aide of Sunetra Pawar, even as some NCP leaders are looking to garner support from a majority of party legislators in favour of the move.Also read: 'Sheer recklessness': Ex-Japan minister slams India for delays in bullet train project, MEA hits back“Both the NCP president and her son are firmly opposed to the merger, as they do not want NCP (SP) president Sharad Pawar and his daughter, Supriya Sule, to regain control of the party,” said a close aide of Sunetra Pawar.On Thursday evening, Parth Pawar met chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.On Tuesday night, NCP (SP) Jayant Patil was at Fadnavis’s official residence, where rival NCP faction’s senior leaders Praful Patel and Sunil Tatkare too were present. NCP (SP) leaders Jayant Patil and Jitendra Awhad met deputy chief minister Eknath Shinde at his official residence in Mumbai on Thursday night.In his meeting, people aware of the matter said, Parth sought to know what had transpired between the CM and the two NCP leaders. Fadnavis declined to share any details, saying he would discuss the matter with Sunetra Pawar, they said.If the merger becomes inevitable, the mother-son duo could press for Sunetra Pawar to continue as both deputy CM and party chief, said the aide quoted above.According to a person privy to the details, the BJP leadership has been in talks with leaders of both parties to set aside differences and unite, thereby, giving the NDA the required heft for the passage of key bills including the constitution amendment bill implementing women’s reservation and delimitation. The NDA which is the largest coalition in both Houses, does not have the required two-third majority needed to pass the bills.In a bid to bring the two outfits together, the BJP has offered each a berth in the Union Cabinet, said the person quoted above.Earlier this week, NCP (SP) leader Supriya Sule said her party would consider supporting the proposed legislation if it spelt out a uniform 50% increase in Lok Sabha seats across all states. She also clarified that the party’s official position was not yet decided.Also read: 'Opening the books once again was difficult': NEET re-exam toppers on paper leak, second attemptThe person cited above said the party precipitated the efforts to unite the two sides keeping in view the upcoming monsoon session that begins on Monday, as it intends to table the constitution amendment bill, which failed to get the required support in the previous session.“The differences are over power sharing and who gets to keep what position. It has been conveyed (to the BJP) that the late Ajit Pawar’s son Parth, who has now been nominated to the Rajya Sabha, is keen on his mother retaining the deputy CM’s post, her current portfolio in the Maharashtra government, and the NCP national president’s post as well. The issues need to be ironed between the two sides,” said the person quoted above.Also read: When Indira met Sonam: How a 1984 story slowly brought Cong to Wangchuk's fastFissures emerged in the NCP following the death of former deputy CM Ajit Pawar in an air crash in Baramati on January 28. These rifts have deepened over a period of time with a section of leaders within the party working to isolate the leadership, said a senior NCP leader.“Parth’s attempt to seize control of the party by forming a team of close aides – and edging out veterans who ran the show with Ajit Pawar -- has led to considerable unease among the MLAs. Many of them have raised doubts about the Sunetra-Parth combine’s ability to lead the party effectively, especially when Mahayuti allies, BJP and Shiv Sena, are run by seasoned politicians such as Fadnavis and Shinde,” said a senior NCP leader, requesting anonymity.He added that efforts are on to garner support from MLAs for the merger. “Several MLAs have spoken in favour of the merger if Sharad Pawar joins the NDA,” he said.He, however, ruled out any possibility of an immediate coup in the NCP. “The chief minister may play a crucial role in the merger talks,” said the NCP leader.The current strength of the Lok Sabha is 540, and the two-thirds mark is 360. In April, the government got 298 votes and the Opposition 230. The NDA’s tally has since risen to 319. If the NCP (SP) supports the Bill, the NDA tally will go up to 327, which will still be 33 short of the two-thirds mark, but the government is hoping that some parties may opt for abstaining rather than voting against the bill.Amid the confusion, NCP vice-president Udaykumar Aher accused leaders within his own party of attempting to end Parth’s political career and demanded a berth in the Union cabinet for him.“An unfair perception has been created that Parth Pawar lacks political maturity. Some within our own ranks are attempting to spread the impression that Parth cannot do justice to either the party or the people. This is an open secret. At just 38 years of age, attempts are being made to end his political career before it has truly begun, especially after the demise of Ajit Dada (Pawar),” the three-page letter to NCP president Sunetra Pawar said.“Giving him a place in the Union cabinet would allow him to prove his abilities and provide a fitting response to those spreading such misconceptions,” it added.Officially, both parties denied any merger talks.“When my brother (Ajit Pawar) was alive, a merger was on the table. But after his death, the other side vehemently opposed it. The issue ended there for us,” Sule told reporters on Friday.NCP Maharashtra president Sunil Tatkare was more circumspect.“As of today, there are no talks. But tomorrow, when voting on the delimitation bill takes place, we do not know what could happen. Politics changes very fast. We have already seen significant political developments after the assembly elections in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu,” Tatkare said in New Delhi.“Political equations can shift quickly.”

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-at-illegal-firecracker-factory-in-ramtol-in-gujarat-ahmedabad-kills-several-death-toll-injured-latest-news-cm-101784376855925.html
Article information: At least five people were killed and 10 others were injured after a major fire broke out at New Fire Works, a firecracker manufacturing unit on Ramol-Gatrad Road near Vastral on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, on Saturday afternoon. Police said the factory was suspected to have been operating illegally.Jaipal Singh Rathore, Additional Commissioner of Police, Sector-2, Ahmedabad City, said 15 people were affected in the incident. Of the five deaths confirmed so far, one victim died at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, while four others died at LG Hospital after being shifted there for treatment. The remaining 10 injured are undergoing treatment.Also Read | Gujarat: Passenger Coach Catches Fire At Sabarmati Railway Yard In AhmedabadThe factory was allegedly being operated by Mehul Dodiya, Rathore said.Sources said the unit's licence had been cancelled in the past and that it had allegedly continued to operate despite the cancellation. Rathore said police were verifying the claims regarding the licence and the legality of the unit's operations.Fire brigade personnel, police teams and 108 ambulance service personnel rushed to the spot after the blaze was reported. Firefighters brought the fire under control and rescued the injured, who were shifted to Ahmedabad Civil Hospital and LG Hospital.Also Read | Fire breaks out on 7th-floor at Noida high-rise after AC blastPolice have launched an investigation into the cause of the fire. Investigators are examining whether firecrackers and explosive materials were being manufactured or stored in violation of licence conditions and safety norms.Gujarat Chief minister Bhupendra Patel announced an ex gratia of  ₹4 lakh for the families of each deceased and  ₹50,000 for every injured person.In a post on X, CM Patel expressed grief over the fire and said the incident was "extremely heartbreaking". He conveyed condolences to the families of those who died and said the local administration had been directed to ensure all necessary treatment and assistance to the injured.PM Modi condoles deathsPrime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the loss of lives in the blast and fire at an illegal firecracker factory in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, and announced ex gratia compensation for the victims. "Extremely saddened to hear about the loss of lives due to a mishap at a fireworks factory in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured. The local administration is providing all possible assistance to those affected," he said.The PM also announced that “an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of each deceased. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000.”

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-privately-developed-orbital-rocket-vikram-1-launches-lif-off-successful-from-sriharikota-skyroot-video-101784356805252.html
Article information: India's first privately developed orbital-class rocket, Vikram-1, lifted off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota on Saturday. It is a major milestone for the country's private space sector and its commercial launch ambitions.Developed by Hyderabad-based Skyroot Aerospace, the mission, named Mission Aagaman, is the first attempt by an Indian private company to place satellites into Low Earth Orbit (LEO). ALSO READ | Vikram-1: All about India's first privately developed orbital rocket saying ‘hello’ to spaceSkyroot founders Pawan Kumar Chandana and Naga Bharath Daka, both former ISRO scientists, watched the launch from the Mission Control Centre along with ISRO Chairman V Narayanan. Former ISRO chiefs, astronaut Shubhanshu Shukla, and Andhra Pradesh minister Nara Lokesh were also present. Modi dialled the founders of Skyroot Aerospace to congratulate them on the successful launch, PTI reported.Successful launch after planned delayThe launch witnessed a brief delay after the mission control team placed the countdown on a planned hold just minutes before the scheduled liftoff at 11.30 am. The launch later proceeded successfully at 12:05 pm.The liftoff has already secured its place in the history of India's space programme. It is the country's first attempt by a private company to place satellites into orbit.ALSO READ | PM Modi wishes Skyroot success ahead of Vikram-1's first orbital launch: ‘A historic new frontier for India’‘History is made’Skyroot Aerospace wrote on X, “ORBIT ACHIEVED. Vikram-1 Test Flight-1 has reached orbit. India's first privately developed orbital rocket has completed its final burn and injected its payloads into a ~450 km orbit, making India the third country in the world with private orbital launch capability. History is made." In another post, they wrote, "Hello space, we have arrived! Vikram-1's Test Flight-1 has completed it's mission. The first ever Indian private sector launch has been successfully completed." Successful deployment of payloadsFollowing liftoff, Vikram-1 inserted multiple payloads into a 450-km LEO. The mission carried technology demonstration payloads from Grahaa Space, Cosmoserve Space, DCUBED, and Skyroot Aerospace's in-house SCOPE satellite.The rocket also transported several commemorative payloads, including a handwritten postcard from Modi carrying the message "Vande Mataram", postcards from engineers, scientists and Indian astronauts, an 18-karat gold miniature rocket, and a micro-art installation, as per a government statement.The micro-art payload features miniature sculptures of Vikram Sarabhai, Sir CV Raman and APJ Abdul Kalam. According to Skyroot, the artwork honours the three pioneers whose work laid the foundation for India's scientific and space programmes. Mission data to support future launchesSkyroot Aerospace said data generated during the maiden flight will be analysed to assess the rocket's guidance and navigation systems and support improvements for future commercial launch missions.The successful mission also validated the performance of Vikram-1's lightweight all-carbon composite structure and 3D-printed engines under actual flight conditions.A milestone for India's private space sectorThe flight is Skyroot's transition from suborbital to orbital launches. While Vikram-S successfully completed a suborbital mission in 2022, Vikram-1 became the company's first rocket to place payloads into orbit.Payloads onboardThe mission carried Embrace by Cosmoserve Space, an in-orbit demonstration of robotic arms designed for future space debris removal; Solaras by Grahaa Space, a compact satellite testing new technologies in Low Earth Orbit; and SCOPE, Skyroot's experimental payload developed to validate technologies for future missions.Also onboard were Cosmic Bloom, an artistic lab-grown diamond by Cosmos Diamonds, and DCUBED's German technology demonstration payloads uD3PP and mD3RN.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-using-abusive-words-like-motherf-ker-punishable-under-obscenity-law-what-supreme-court-says-101784374055129.html
Article information: The Supreme Court on Friday answered whether abusive language would amount to the offence of obscenity under criminal law, saying that it could, but only under very specific circumstances.A Bench of Justices Sanjay Karol and Vipul M Pancholi held that abusive language and vulgar expletives, however offensive or uncivil, will not amount to obscenity unless they are lascivious, appeal to prurient interests, and have the tendency to deprave or corrupt those exposed to them.The court made the observation while partly allowing the appeal of a man who was convicted for obscenity for using the words “motherf***ker”, “son of a wh*re” and other vulgar expletives during an altercation over a land dispute.“Let’s be clear, legally, obscenity is not synonymous with ‘vulgarity’, ‘abuse’ or ‘profanity’. Use of mere swear words, profanities and vulgar expletives, however distasteful or uncivil they may be, cannot be equated with obscenity...Words which are merely vulgar or abusive may evoke a feeling of disgust, revulsion or shock, but that by itself does not make them obscene in law,” the Court noted, reported Bar and Bench.However, the Court upheld his conviction for causing grievous hurt with a billhook after finding that he had fractured the complainant’s nasal bone. It reduced his sentence to imprisonment until the court rose and directed him to pay a fine of  ₹50,000.About the caseThe case arose out of a dispute over agricultural land in Tamil Nadu in August 2017. According to the prosecution, an altercation first broke out between the accused, identified as Mani, and the complainant’s brother-in-law over the land.The complainant’s nephew also allegedly got involved.The prosecution alleged that the accused abused the complainant using vulgar expletives and caste-based slurs when he intervened in the dispute. The accused then allegedly fetched a billhook from his house and attacked him.The complainant sustained injuries to his forehead, nose and thumb. A CT scan later revealed that his nasal bone had been fractured.The trial court convicted the accused under Sections 294(b) (obscenity), 326 (grievous hurt) and 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, besides provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.The Madras high court later acquitted the accused of the offences under the SC/ST Act but upheld his convictions under the IPC. That is how the case landed in the Supreme Court.What the Supreme Court saidThe Supreme Court said on the obscenity conviction that the law does not treat every abusive or vulgar expression as obscene.The Bench explained that for words to amount to obscenity under Section 294(b) IPC, they must be lascivious, appeal to prurient interests and have the tendency to deprave and corrupt those exposed to them. It must also be shown that the utterance caused annoyance to others.Based on that, the bench held that even if the prosecution’s allegations were accepted in full, the words attributed to Mani were merely abusive or vulgar and did not satisfy the ingredients of the offence of obscenity.“In the present case, during the altercation, the appellant allegedly uttered that “Hey Motherfucker! You son of a whore! Are you coming in support of your elder sister's son? Just fuck off, you ‘Kurutha’ Fucker.." Such words, howsoever abusive, unpalatable or uncivil, do not satisfy the requirement of Section 294(b) IPC… Further, it is nobody’s case that use of such words caused annoyance to others in a public place, which is a mandatory ingredient of the Section,” the apex court noted, according to the report.The Court also set aside the accused’s conviction for criminal intimidation under Section 506(ii) IPC.It held that merely using threatening words during an altercation is not enough to constitute the offence unless the prosecution proves that the accused intended to cause alarm or compel the victim to do or refrain from doing a particular act.However, the Bench found no reason to interfere with the conviction under Section 326 IPC. It noted that the medical evidence corroborated the complainant’s testimony that he had been assaulted with a billhook and had suffered a fractured nasal bone, which squarely fell within the definition of grievous hurt.Taking into account that the incident arose out of a land dispute, as well as the appellant’s age of around 70 years and his health condition, the court modified his sentence to imprisonment till the rising of the court. It also directed him to pay a fine of  ₹50,000 within two months.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jnu-neha-bora-continues-hunger-strike-after-sonam-wangchuk-moved-away-cops-plain-clothes-cjp-jantar-mantar-101784352417023.html
Article information: A student activist on Saturday claimed that Delhi Police attempted to detain protesters after forcibly removing activist Sonam Wangchuk from Jantar Mantar. Neha Bora, a PhD scholar at JNU, is also on an indefinite hunger strike and completed 21 days of fasting on Saturday. She said she would continue the indefinite hunger strike despite the police action.Neha said Wangchuk was taken away early in the morning by the police and they later tried to enter the protest area and remove other students fasting. Track live updates on the CJP protest here“Today is the 21st day of our hunger strike,” Neha told HT. “At around 7 am, some people in plain clothes entered the stage area. Five to ten minutes later, a heavy police deployment moved toward the stage area, and Sonam Wangchuk, who was on the 21st day of his hunger strike, was forcibly removed from here in the name of providing him medical attention.” “After that, RF and police personnel in uniform tried to break through the rope boundary around our ISA tent and enter the area. They also tried to detain us, the hunger strikers. Because there were many volunteers present, they were unable to detain us. But the Delhi Police's attempt to forcibly end a democratic and peaceful protest is shameful,” Neha told HT.She added, "On one hand, this government has taken no notice of the students and Sonam Wangchuk, who have been sitting on hunger strike for 21 days. On the other hand, it is trying to forcibly assault our hunger strikers and admit us to the hospital against our will. I appeal to all of you to come to Jantar Mantar. This movement has not ended, and it will not end until Dharmendra Pradhan resigns. Please make sure this message reaches everyone."ALSO READ | Sonam Wangchuk's wife breaks silence, says no treatment without her consent: ‘Will hold everyone accountable if…’ Why Wangchuk was moved to the hospitalThe allegations came after Delhi Police moved Wangchuk to Safdarjung Hospital on Saturday. Police said the activist was shifted in compliance with Delhi high court directions and on the advice of medical experts because of his deteriorating health."As per orders of Hon'ble High Court and on expert medical advice due to the deteriorating health condition of Sh. Sonam Wangchuk, he has been shifted to the hospital for essential medical care. While complying with the orders of Hon'ble High Court the protestors tried to create obstruction, in which slight commotion ensued; however, police took maximum restrain and undertook the exercise safely," the DCP said on X.They also said they did not beat any of the protesters.ALSO READ | CJP's Abhijeet Dipke announces indefinite hunger strike after Wangchuk moved to hospitalHuman chainCockroach Janta Party (CJP) spokesperson Ashutosh Ranka said Neha, Aameen and Manish were continuing their hunger strike even after Wangchuk was taken to the hospital.Student protesters later formed a human chain around the protest site to prevent police from removing the remaining hunger strikers, including Neha, news agency ANI reported.The protest has entered its third week. Demonstrators demand the resignation of Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan over NEET paper leaks.On Friday, the All India Students' Association (AISA) said Neha's blood sugar level had dropped to a critically low level, prompting doctors to recommend that she end her fast and seek immediate hospitalisation. AISA also said fellow hunger strikers Aameen and Manish had developed serious health complications after 20 days of fasting, PTI reported.'Why did you drag him away hiding?'Abhijeet Dipke, CJP founder, announced an indefinite hunger strike after Wangchuk was taken away.He later said, "He is not a criminal. Why did you drag him away hiding behind sheets? He didn’t want to go to the hospital. He wanted to join the Parliament march. But what these police have done- he was not a criminal. The way they took him away hidden under sheets- if you were so concerned about his health, you should have taken him with respect. In every state, in every district, set up a Jantar Mantar! And protest there just like it has been going on here for a month." The CJP is demanding the resignation of Dharmendra Pradhan and  ₹1 crore compensation for the families of students who died by suicide over examination-related irregularities. The group has also called for a peaceful march to Parliament on July 20, the opening day of the Monsoon Session.The protest began on June 20, and Wangchuk joined the agitation on June 28, launching an indefinite hunger strike that continued until he was shifted to hospital on Saturday.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-to-rishikesh-in-3-hours-how-namo-bharat-corridor-extension-will-ease-travel-ncrtc-delhi-meerut-train-101784373281965.html
Article information: Travelling between Meerut and Rishikesh could soon become significantly faster, with the Namo Bharat regional rail service set to be extended to the Uttarakhand town.The proposed 150-km expansion, agreed upon by the governments of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand along with the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), is expected to cut travel time between the two cities to around three hours.According to an official statement, the existing 82-km Namo Bharat corridor between Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi and Modipuram in Meerut will be extended by another 150 km to Lakshman Jhula in Rishikesh, news agency PTI reported.The semi-high-speed train, capable of running at up to 160 kmph, will cover the nearly 230-km journey in about three hours. This is almost half the time it currently takes to travel from Delhi to Rishikesh by road via Meerut.The agreement follows Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's proposal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the statement said.A survey for preparing the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the proposed 150-km extension will begin soon, the agency reported.Also Read: Off to a flying start: Over 13000 vehicles hit Lucknow-Kanpur Expressway in 24 hours150-km extension plannedThe Namo Bharat service began operations between Delhi and Meerut in January 2025.To fast-track the extension, the Uttarakhand government has appointed Additional Secretary Reena Joshi as the nodal officer. The NCRTC has also designated its nodal officer, while the Uttar Pradesh government has given its formal consent.Under the proposed alignment, the new corridor will start from Modipuram station in Meerut, pass through Muzaffarnagar, and enter Uttarakhand via Roorkee. It will then pass through Har ki Pauri in Haridwar before terminating at Lakshman Jhula in Rishikesh.Also Read: Lucknow to Kanpur in 45 minutes: New expressway puts connectivity in the fast laneOf the proposed 150-km stretch, 72 km will be in Uttar Pradesh and the remaining 78 km in Uttarakhand.The extension is expected to provide a modern transit option for pilgrims travelling to Uttarakhand as well as residents commuting to Delhi.Chief Minister Dhami said the expansion of the Namo Bharat service would usher in a new era of connectivity in Uttarakhand by offering fast, safe and modern transportation to tourists, pilgrims and local residents.Also Read: HT Explainer | India’s first hydrogen train: All you need to know(With inputs from PTI)

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-backs-sonam-wangchuk-hunger-strike-cjp-dipke-calls-removal-from-jantar-mantar-wrong-narendra-modi-govt-101784371120462.html
Article information: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday broke his silence on the alleged removal of activist Sonam Wangchuk from Jantar Mantar in Delhi, accusing the Narendra Modi government of suppressing peaceful protests.Sharing a post on X, Rahul said that the core tenets of the Narendra Modi government are Asatya and Hinsa and described Wangchuk's removal while he was on a non-violent hunger strike as "wrong." Linking the issue to students' concerns, Rahul said paper leaks, the rising cost of education and student suicides were among the most pressing challenges facing the country. He asserted that "no amount of force" could stop India's students, or those who stand with them, from raising these issues, signalling the Congress party's support for Wangchuk's protest.Track Sonam Wangchuk hospitalised LIVE updates hereDelhi police says they ‘kept maximum restraint’ while taking Wangchuk to hospitalOn the morning of July 18, activist Sonam Wangchuk was shifted to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi by the Delhi Police on health grounds. The police said the move was made in compliance with the Delhi High Court's directions, which required the authorities to ensure Wangchuk received appropriate medical care if his health deteriorated."As per high court orders and on expert medical advice, due to the deteriorating health condition of Sonam Wangchuk, he has been shifted to the hospital for essential medical care. While complying with the high court orders, the protestors tried to create an obstruction, during which a slight commotion ensued. However, police kept maximum restraint and undertook the exercise safely," the police said in a statement.Also Read | Video: Woman throws ink at Abhijeet Dipke as he sits on hunger strike after Sonam Wangchuk's 'removal'CJP says Delhi Police 'kidnapped' WangchukHowever, the CJP has disputed the police's version, maintaining that there was no significant deterioration in Wangchuk's health on the 21st day of his hunger strike. The party described his hospitalisation as a ‘kidnapping’ by the police. The CJP alleged in a social media post that the government had "forcefully abducted"Wangchuk 'without his or his family's consent' just two days before the group's planned march to Parliament.Also Read | 'I'll lead if Sonam can't': Wangchuk's wife Gitanjali says July 20 march to Parliament is onCJP chief spokesperson Saurav Das also challenged the police's account, saying the High Court had not ordered Wangchuk's forcible removal. He questioned the medical justification for shifting Wangchuk to the hospital, claiming no doctor had examined him immediately before he was taken away, and alleged that the authorities were attempting to suppress a protest movement that had been gathering momentum.Wangchuk's wife says march to Parliament on July 20 is still onGitanjali J Angmo, Sonam Wangchuk's wife, said that her husband remains on a hunger strike and asserted that the planned march to Parliament on July 20 would go ahead regardless of his condition. She said that if Wangchuk is unable to participate, she will lead the march in his place."Even if Sonam can't join the march, I will represent him and lead that march, and it will happen on Monday as planned. It's not that just because they've forcibly brought Sonam here, they can stop it," she said.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonam-wangchuk-health-live-updates-hunger-strike-day-20-jantar-mantar-cjp-cockroach-janta-abhijeet-dipke-neet-ug-results-101784251006895.html
Article information: Sonam Wangchuk hunger strike highlights: Educationist and environment activist Sonam Wangchuk's hunger strike demanding Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan's resignation over the NEET-UG paper leak entered its 20th day on Friday, with doctors warning that his health has reached a critical stage and could deteriorate further if the fast continues.The warning came as opposition leaders, including former Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Samajwadi Party MP Dimple Yadav, visited Jantar Mantar to express solidarity with Wangchuk and the youth-led protest.Wangchuk refuses to call off fastDespite mounting concerns over his health, Wangchuk remained firm on continuing the protest.He said ending the fast without any response from the government would send the wrong message. Instead, he urged supporters to strengthen the Cockroach Janta Party's proposed Parliament march scheduled for July 20.Wangchuk, along with several students, has been leading the agitation at Jantar Mantar. Student organisations including the Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS), All India Students' Association (AISA) and Students' Federation of India (SFI) are also participating in the protest.Wangchuk health updateAccording to the latest medical bulletin issued by Dr Satish Lamba, Wangchuk has lost more than nine kilograms since beginning his fast on June 28 and now weighs 56.9 kg, reported news agency PTI."After glucose reserves are exhausted, the body consumes fat. After that, muscles begin to get consumed. His ketone level had reached 3-plus and, after improving hydration, it has come down to 2-plus. His uric acid is high, which indicates that muscles are being consumed," he said.Warning about the next stage of deterioration, the doctor said, “The next stage can be alarming. Organs can be impacted. We are keeping him under 24x7 vigilance and hope it does not reach that stage.”He also appealed for intervention, saying, "I urge the government to intervene as soon as possible because he is a precious gem and we do not want to lose him. If organs get impacted, it can be really alarming for us."Opposition leaders extend supportKejriwal joined the demonstrators on Thursday and reiterated his demand for Pradhan's resignation. He also proposed Wangchuk's name for the post of Union education minister.Addressing the gathering, the AAP chief urged the Centre to respond to the protesters' demands."Listen to the youth, the movement, and Sonam Wangchuk; otherwise, three years later, you (Central Government) will meet a 2014-like fate," Kejriwal said.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, one of the prominent faces of the 2020-21 farmers' agitation, also visited the protest site and extended support to the movement.Congress backs demandThe Congress has also backed the demand for Pradhan's resignation while appealing to Wangchuk to call off his hunger strike because of his deteriorating health.Meanwhile, Congress has simultaneously launched its own campaign, 'Chhatron Ki Goonj', led by Rahul Gandhi against alleged examination irregularities across the country.Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal said in a post on X, "Sonam Wangchuk has now been on a hunger strike for 19 days, demanding the resignation of the Union Education Minister. The Indian National Congress has been making this very demand for over a month and a half.""We share the anguish and outrage that Wangchuk ji feels, especially due to the lack of accountability within the Modi Govt - for the collapse of the examination system in particular," he added.Appealing to Wangchuk to end the fast, Venugopal said, “In view of his health condition, we appeal to Wangchuk to end his fast. His concerns are our concerns and that of other Opposition parties as well. Rest assured, we will continue to confront the Modi government and demand the Education Minister's resignation.”Delhi high court orders daily monitoringAmid concerns over Wangchuk's health, the Delhi high court directed authorities to clinically monitor his condition every day.A division bench of Chief Justice Devendra Kumar Upadhyaya and Justice Tejas Karia observed that "the life of every citizen is precious and all efforts ought to be made by the government authorities to save the same."The court further directed that any medical intervention recommended by government doctors should be provided without delay.The directions came while disposing of a public interest litigation filed over concerns about Wangchuk's worsening health during the prolonged fast.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonam-wangchuk-hunger-strike-day-21-live-updates-cjp-protest-at-jantar-mantar-environmentalist-wangchuk-health-latest-101784336634328.html
Article information: Sonam Wangchuk hospitalised LIVE: Activist Sonam Wangchuk, who was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital after completing 20 days of an indefinite hunger strike, has refused intravenous fluids, oral rehydration solution (ORS) and other medications despite showing signs of dehydration and metabolic complications, hospital authorities told PTI on Saturday.Doctors said Wangchuk is under continuous medical observation and is being counselled to accept treatment, warning that prolonged fasting without medical intervention could further worsen his condition.The development came as Wangchuk's indefinite hunger strike entered its 21st day, with tensions escalating at Delhi's Jantar Mantar after Campaign for Justice and Peace (CJP) leader Abhijeet Dipke alleged that police forcibly removed the activist from the protest site and cracked down on demonstrators. Delhi Police, however, said Wangchuk was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital following directions from the Delhi High Court and on the advice of medical experts, citing concerns over his deteriorating health.A day earlier, Wangchuk had said he had lost nearly 20 per cent of his body weight but remained determined to continue his fast, demanding the resignation of Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan over alleged irregularities in the NEET UG examination.In a video message released at the end of the 20th day of his fast, Wangchuk appealed to people across the country to join the Cockroach Janta Party's (CJP) proposed "Chalo Sansad" march on July 20, arguing that public participation would decide the strength and success of the movement.Speaking about his health, Wangchuk acknowledged the physical toll of the prolonged fast but said he was not backing down."Yes, I am still alive. Twenty per cent of my body is gone. After fats, muscles are gone. After that, organs will go. Finally, the brain. The time has not come yet," Wangchuk said.The activist joined the agitation at Jantar Mantar on June 28 and has been on an indefinite hunger strike since then. The protest itself began on June 20 and has now entered its 28th day.AISA student on hunger strikeConcerns over the health of protesters have intensified as the agitation continues. On the 28th day of the protest, the condition of three All India Students' Association (AISA) activists on indefinite hunger strike deteriorated further, with doctors recommending immediate hospitalisation for one of them.The AISA said three of its activists – Neha, Aameen and Manish – have now completed 20 days on an indefinite hunger strike on Friday.In a statement, the student body said Neha's blood sugar level had dropped to a critically low level, prompting doctors to advise her to end the fast and seek immediate hospitalisation to prevent further deterioration in her condition, news agency PTI report added.According to AISA, Aameen has developed dangerously high uric acid levels and has lost nearly 14 per cent of his body weight. Manish, meanwhile, has shed more than 10 kg during the protest and has reportedly been experiencing episodes of near-unconsciousness, requiring continuous assistance even for routine activities.Support from OppositionThe worsening health of Wangchuk and other fasting protesters has also drawn visits from several opposition leaders.Congress leader Pawan Khera, NCP (SP) MP Supriya Sule and other opposition figures visited the protest site on Friday and urged the Centre to open a dialogue with the agitators.A day earlier, AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal, SP MP Dimple Yadav and farmer leader Rakesh Tikait had also met Wangchuk and expressed support for the ongoing movement.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonam-wangchuk-wife-breaks-silence-says-no-medical-treatment-without-her-consent-abhijeet-dipke-cjp-delhi-jantar-mantar-101784347008043.html
Article information: Hours after the Delhi Police moved Sonam Wangchuk to the hospital on Saturday, the activist's wife said no medical treatment should be administered to him without her consent. It is the 21st day, a full three weeks, of Wangchuk's indefinite hunger strike demanding the resignation of Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan over exam paper leaks and student suicides.He should not have been taken to the hospital, Gitanjali J Angmo, his wife, said. She is now at the Safdarjung hospital and asks authorities to not give him any medication without consulting either her, his family or his doctors.“I am at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi where [Sonam Wangchuk] has been admitted,” she wrote on X. Track the CJP protest chaos live here“Nothing should be administered to him orally or intravenous without take consent from me, his family and his doctors who have been monitoring his health for the past 20 days.” "I forbid them from administering anything without my consent. No treatment should start without my consent. I hold everybody accountable if anything happens," Angmo told PTI.She said Wangchuk was well on Friday. "Yesterday, he was doing fine. There was no need to bring him to the hospital. It's my right under Article 32. Without my consent and my doctor's consent, nothing can be administered," she said.ALSO READ | CJP's Abhijeet Dipke announces indefinite hunger strike after Wangchuk moved to hospital Why the Delhi police moved Sonam WangchukThe Delhi Police said Wangchuk was shifted to the Safdarjung hospital for "essential medical care" following expert medical advice and in compliance with directions issued by the Delhi High Court.DCP (New Delhi) Sachin Sharma told HT, "As per orders of Hon’ble High Court and on expert medical advise due to the deteriorating health condition of Sh. Sonam Wangchuk, he has been shifted to the hospital for essential medical care.While complying with the orders of Hon’ble High Court the protestors tried to create obstruction, in which slight commotion ensued, however police took maximum restrain and undertook the exercise safely. We request the protestors at Jantar Mantar to peacefully vacate the place at the earliest."ALSO READ | High drama on Day 21 of Wangchuk's strike: Hospitalisation, Dipke's ‘detention’, students' lathicharge claim CJP alleges contempt of courtCockroach Janata Party (CJP) chief spokesperson Saurav Das alleged that the Delhi Police had misinterpreted the Delhi High Court's directions while shifting Sonam Wangchuk to hospital and termed his detention a contempt of court.“The Delhi High Court directed that the health of Sonam Wangchuk should be monitored and any intervention should only take place if his health deteriorates. His health is monitored by our medical team 2-3 times a day and he himself posts videos on a daily basis giving update about his health which has been stable. The Delhi police has misinterpreted that court order and in the guise of that order detained him. The detention is a contempt of court’s order,” Das said.Abhijeet Dipke's indefinte hunger strike Day 1CJP founder Abhijeet Dipke on Saturday began an indefinite hunger strike after Wangchuk was taken to Safdarjung Hospital earlier in the day.Dipke wrote on X, "I am starting an indefinite hunger strike beginning right now." In a separate post, the CJP said, "Abhijeet Dipke sits on an indefinite hunger strike. The ‘Chalo Sansad’ march on 20 July will proceed as planned." Wangchuk joined the CJP-led protest at Jantar Mantar on June 28 and has been on an indefinite hunger strike since then in support of the group's demand for Dharmendra Pradhan's resignation.On Friday, he also appealed to people across the country to participate in the CJP's proposed "Chalo Sansad" march on July 20.Attack allegation, detention claimsThe hospitalisation came hours after Dipke alleged that an object was thrown at Wangchuk during the protest on Friday. He claimed Wangchuk was not injured but said “goons” attempted to attack him.He also claimed to have received information from "an insider in the police" that people would be sent to disrupt the demonstration.ALSO READ | 'Govt will be responsible if...': Abhijeet Dipke says Sonam Wangchuk attacked amid hunger strike, 'object thrown'Minutes later, Dipke, on X, claimed police used force against protesters and beat and detained him. Saurav Das also alleged that police lathi-charged students at the protest site.Students at Jantar Mantar also claimed that police attempted to remove three other protesters who had also been on a hunger strike for the past 21 days.DCP Sachin Sharma has denied that police beat up Dipke or any protesters. He said they were only trying to remove Sonam Wangchuk.(With inputs from Jignasa Sinha and Gargi Shukla)

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-woman-throws-ink-at-abhijeet-dipke-as-he-sits-on-hunger-strike-after-sonam-wangchuks-removal-jantar-mantar-cjp-101784363944088.html
Article information: Chaos erupted at Jantar Mantar on Saturday after a woman threw an ink-like liquid at Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) founder Abhijeet Dipke while he was addressing a gathering at the protest site.The incident briefly disrupted the programme as supporters rushed towards the stage, triggering commotion.“Blue is my colour… Jai Bhim!” Dipke said while sharing the video on X. The woman's identity and the motive behind the act were not immediately known. This comes just after Dipke announced that he would sit on an indefinite hunger strike after social activist Sonam Wangchuk was taken to the hospital by the Delhi police on the 21st day of his hunger strike at Jantar Mantar.Wangchuk had been on an indefinite hunger strike since June 28 in support of the CJP-led protest over alleged irregularities in the NEET examination. Doctors monitoring him had said he had lost nearly 9.5 kg during the fast, while his blood pressure and blood sugar levels were being closely monitored.Dipke has alleged on social media that protesters were detained and subjected to police action during the exercise.How Wangchuk was removedThe exercise was conducted on a strict need-to-know basis, with only a handful of senior officers aware of the complete strategy, police sources told ANI, adding that senior officers further decided that the operation would be carried out at daybreak, when the number of protesters at the site was at its lowest.Inspectors and most police personnel deployed on the ground were reportedly instructed only to reach the protest site and remain in position. They were not informed about the full operational details beforehand.The next step was to identify a perfect opportunity, which the sources said came when Wangchuk's close aide and Cockroach Janta Party founder Abhijeet Dipke, was away from the protest venue. The unnamed official added that this left the stage without its principal coordinator.At around daybreak, 30-35 personnel from the New Delhi district's Special Staff and local police units, dressed in plain clothes, quietly entered the barricaded protest area, the ANI report said.The officers first surrounded Wangchuk's bed before covering it from all four sides with large white sheets. This was reportedly done to shield the operation from public view, prevent crowd mobilisation and minimise any commotion while he was being escorted away from the stage.The removal was carried out through a three-tier security arrangement, sources said.In the first layer, plainclothes officers secured the stage and moved Wangchuk out of the protest area. The second layer consisted of personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Rapid Action Force (RAF), who held back protesters outside the barricaded zone to prevent confrontations.The third layer involved senior Delhi Police officers monitoring the operation from a control point near the ambulance and police vehicles.Once Wangchuk was placed inside an ambulance, traffic police personnel ensured a clear passage, allowing the vehicle to travel uninterrupted to Safdarjung Hospital, the ANI sources added.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-bee-will-2026-be-the-warmest-year-yet-101784300456817.html
Article information: Around half of 2026 is still to come. This means that any answer to the question posed above is likely to be uncertain. Answering this question with any degree of certainty is also best left to climate scientists, who are better equipped to handle it. However, a layman’s understanding of the possible answer – this year can easily rank second warmest, although being the warmest is not impossible – can help us understand some important things about the climate crisis.The short summary of the climate crisis implications of the possible answer is as follows. The first thing the possible answer shows is that breaching the 1.5°C threshold in particular months does not necessarily need an El Nino. The second thing it shows is that breaching that threshold appears relatively easy even in the annual average. The third thing it shows is the corollary of the first two: does the rank of the year matter when no special circumstances are needed for breaching the 1.5°C threshold? The long answer is as follows.The reason why checking possible warming scenarios for 2026 is interesting at all is because of what has come before. The past years – 2023, 2024, 2025 – were the warmest on record; and are ranked the second warmest, the warmest, and the third warmest, respectively. Moreover, while only 2025 breached the 1.5°C threshold – scientists expect catastrophic changes in climate if long-term warming relative to the pre-industrial baseline breaches this threshold – both 2023 and 2025 were very close to the threshold. These two years recorded 1.48°C and 1.47°C warming, and the average warming in the 2023-2025 period is 1.52°C. In other words, 2026 will confirm if 1.5°C is going to continue as the new normal.It is not just the past three years that raise the spectre of 2026 possibly being the warmest-ever year. The first half of 2026 is quite warm, too. The average temperature for the year up to July 14 (the latest available data from the ERA5 dataset published by the Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S)) is 1.45°C warmer than the pre-industrial average. This is the third-highest average for this part of the year, behind 2024 and 2025.With past trends summarised, one can now check how much warming is required in the rest of the year for 2026 to breach particular thresholds. To maintain the third rank 2026 holds for the year up to July 14, the rest of the year needs to average 1.50°C. Similarly, the rest of the year needs to average 1.53°C, 1.56°C, and 1.77°C, respectively, to be ranked second warmest, to breach the 1.5°C threshold at the end of the year, and to be ranked the warmest ever.Warming in the 1.50-1.56°C range should not be hard at all for the rest of 2026. Here is why. 2026 hit the 1.50°C threshold in February and recorded 1.47°C and 1.48°C warming in January and February despite La Nina-like conditions being in place in November and December. La Nina is a periodic cooling of the surface of the central-eastern equatorial Pacific that is expected to cool global temperatures with a 2-4 month lag. That temperatures were still around 1.50°C warmer than normal suggests the baseline warming in the world is teetering on the edge of that threshold for at least the cooler months of the year (long-term warming has so far been relatively higher in the northern hemisphere’s cooler months at the beginning and end of the year than in other months).If baseline warming of the cooler months is close to 1.5°C, the rest of the year should not have a problem recording warming in the 1.50-1.56°C range because La Nina’s warmer counterpart – El Nino, which warms global temperatures – was in place in May. In 2023, another recent year when El Nino arrived in May, the July 15-December 31 period averaged 1.68°C warming. To be sure, it is possible that El Nino’s impact will be seen in global temperatures with the usual lag of two-four months, but it seems to have already eroded any lingering impact of La Nina conditions. While months up to April were ranked fourth or fifth warmest, both May and June this year were the second warmest on record. Clearly, the only question is whether El Nino’s impact will be strong enough for the rest of the year to average the 1.77°C warming required for the year to be the warmest ever. That is a tall order. Only two months in human history have breached the 1.77°C threshold: December 2023 and February 2024, which recorded 1.78°C and 1.77°C warming. However, it may not be impossible. Scientists widely expect this year’s El Nino to mature into one of the strongest ever.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-listening-day-sound-knowlege-101784346225012.html
Article information: It’s long past sundown and I’m making my way to my lodge in Satpura National Park. The pathway is dimly lit by lamps, and I see the outline of trees, fluid, swaying, as they stand beneath a canopy of stars. It’s the sounds of the forest that keep me grounded. The cadenced chirping of crickets surrounds me; there’s the occasional sound of splashing water from a frog jumping into a nearby water body; the crackling of leaves beneath my feet; the sudden burst of a hollow trill from the Jungle Owlet, perched up above. The distinctly different sounds merge together to create a fabulous symphony that is completely unpredictable, yet strangely rhythmic and soothing.“Listening to the sounds of nature is in our DNA,” says Shaheen Shaik, Naturalist, Pugdundee Safaris. Shaik explains that the sound of birds chirping is known to be therapeutic. But one of the reasons we likely find it calming is due to knowledge passed down by our ancestors. Without any technical jargon, Shaik skillfully explains what scientists refer to as the ‘Biophilia Hypothesis’, an innate tendency to seek connections with, and cues from, nature. Shaik says, “The music of certain songbirds told our ancestors - at a time when we dwelled in the great outdoors - that we’re safe; that no predators are lurking close by.”Anand Pendharkar, Wildlife Biologist &amp; CEO, SPROUTS, states, “Bird sounds also allow for cross-species communication, i.e. between birds and plants.” Citing a 2024 study by JK Gullari at Sri Venkateswara University, Pendharkar explains that the study found that sound waves positively affect plant processes such as stomatal behaviour and photosynthesis, and help build resilience to environmental stress.Shaik further elaborates on cross-species communication. She says, “The calls of the jungle fowl can alert us to a tiger.” The fowls’ unique visual abilities allow them to adeptly spot tigers. However, Shaik says, “To understand whether the call of the fowl will lead us to a big cat, we have to decode the volume, pitch and repetition.” Shaik explains that, much like humans when fearing imminent danger, the calls of the fowl become increasingly frantic and high-pitched. They also serve to alert other creatures to the dangers that lurk. Conversely, Pendharkar explains why predators like tigers have thick, soft, cushioned paws, which act like natural shock absorbers. He says, “They muffle sounds which allows tigers to ambush their prey.”While tracking calls, it’s important to beware of creatures that mimic others. Many species of drongos are known to be excellent at mimicry, and recreate the calls of several different birds. This serves as a way to ensure their own safety, such that when they fear predators they mimic larger, stronger birds.Birds aside, the trees also speak. Canadian scientist Dr. Suzanne Simard coined the term ‘wood wide web’. Dr. Simard’s work popularised the theory of the existence of fungal filaments that run beneath the soil and connect entire forests. These mycelium threads intertwine and form a network known as the ‘wood wide web’, which allows trees to talk with, and provide nourishment to, each other. We cannot hear these conversations, and to us trees are largely silent. Yet they are important instruments of sound, explains Shaik. “The trees, with their branches, canopies, leaves and flowers, serve as acoustic filters. They absorb, as well as scatter and reflect sounds,” says Shaik. Deforestation and large-scale damage to trees from forest fires greatly change the acoustics of a forest.As we continue to infiltrate their natural habitats, many species have been lost forever. And naturalists remind us that the world is interconnected — that we depend on each other. For instance, cutting down trees affects bats, which feed off insects that, in turn, breed in thick foliage. Most bats emit sounds at frequencies that are not audible to human ears. Yet sound plays a very important role in the bats’ lives — they hunt by means of echolocation. This means that the sound waves emitted by the bats bounce off objects or creatures in the environment. This, in turn, helps the bat pinpoint the exact location of its prey, and it swoops down on the creature. Bats may not be audible to us, but when they go silent, we pay the price. Pendharkar says, “Bats feed on insects and thereby help control the insect population.” Take away this natural pesticide and you’ve disturbed the delicate balance of nature, including the yield of crops.Today, across the world, many species have gone extinct due to widespread urbanisation, but some have learned to speak our language. Pendharkar mentions that researchers have discovered young bonnet macaques in Bandipur National Park that emit a distinct soft sound, and extend their hand for food, when they spot tourists carrying edibles.Despite the fact that India’s forests have an orchestra of fascinating creatures, we’re still chasing the big cats. But Shaik, who works with Waghoba Eco Lodge by Pugdundee Safaris within Tadoba National Park, is noticing a shift. She says that many visitors come for the tigers, yet often what stays with them are the echoes of the unsung heroes. She explains, “At the end, I ask people to pick the highlight of their visit. Increasingly, people mention experiences other than tiger sightings.” A recent group she led unanimously stated that “listening to the carpenter bees” was their most cherished moment. She explains, “We were parked, engines shut down, waiting to spot a sloth bear. Instead, in the silence, we tuned into the buzzing of bees, nestled in a nearby tree.”On World Listening Day (July 18), dedicated to the sounds of the natural world, it’s time we switched off the noise and listened to the cries of nature. After all, as part of a wonderful yet threatened ecosystem, we cannot afford to tune out nature. Our survival depends on it.One factual correction: The Canadian scientist’s name is Dr. Suzanne Simard, not Suzanne Simhard. This is a spelling error rather than an editorial change and should be corrected.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/sports/others/manu-bhaker-double-olympic-medallist-reacts-to-paper-leak-protests-not-about-promoting-or-opposing-political-party-101784369867367.html
Article information: Double Olympic medallist shooter Manu Bhaker has come out in the open to voice her concern over the difficulties faced by students protesting against alleged examination paper leaks, stating that every child deserves equal opportunities in education and safety. Sharing her views on X (formerly Twitter), the 24-year-old said the issue extends far beyond political debates and should instead be treated as a matter of accountability and responsibility.She also stressed that the students' future must remain the top priority and called for stronger measures to ensure the integrity of the education system. Bhaker's remarks come amid ongoing protests over alleged examination paper leaks, with students demanding transparency and accountability. The Olympian expressed deep sympathy for students affected by the controversy, saying it was heartbreaking to witness their distress. According to Bhaker, young people should not have to endure uncertainty or injustice while pursuing their academic goals. She also underscored that access to quality education and a secure environment is a basic right that every student should enjoy.Also Read: I am my own competition, says pistol ace Manu Bhaker"At this point, it’s about the lives of the future of our nation. It’s about us. I am a student, and at one point, we were all students. Every child deserves access to education, safety, and a fair chance at life. These are not privileges—they are fundamental rights. The students and children who lost their lives were meant to be the future of our country. Their dreams, their potential, and their futures should have been protected,” Manu Bhaker wrote on X (formerly Twitter).“This is not about promoting or opposing any political party. It is about speaking up for what truly matters—education, the environment, safety, and accountability,” she added. ‘Immense pride’Bhaker also urged people not to view the matter through a political lens, arguing that students' concerns deserve attention regardless of political affiliation. She maintained that the focus should remain on protecting the aspirations and well-being of the country's youth rather than allowing the issue to become a subject of partisan debate.“These issues affect every one of us, regardless of our beliefs. I take immense pride in representing my country. That is why it is deeply heartbreaking to see the students suffer like this. We owe them more. We owe every child a future where they can learn, grow, and dream without fear,” Bhaker wrote.Bhaker's message has added a prominent sporting voice to the conversation, highlighting the need for collective efforts to safeguard students' interests and restore confidence in the examination process.On Saturday, Indian activist and educationist Sonam Wangchuk was removed from the protest site at Jantar Mantar. He has been on a hunger strike for the past 20 days. The 59-year-old had been protesting alongside the online satirical movement known as the Cockroach Janta Party (CJP). The CJP started in May as an online movement to protest against paper leaks. They have been protesting for a month now, and some members of student organisations have also joined Wangchuk in his fast.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/conflict-in-the-gulf-has-become-much-more-deadly-for-commercial-sailors-101784367329315.html
Article information: In the wee hours of Sunday, Herambh Karmarkar’s wife received two messages from her seafarer husband, who was aboard a ship that had just safely crossed the Strait of Hormuz.“Great!” she replied, from her home in Pune, India, according to a screenshot of the messages seen by The Wall Street Journal.Before dawn broke, an Iranian missile and drones smacked into the rear of Karmarkar’s ship, setting it ablaze nine nautical miles off the coast of Oman. One of the 24 crew members went missing, according to a U.S. official familiar with the attack.That crew member was 30-year-old Karmarkar, the third engineer of the GFS Galaxy, a containership that had left the port of Jebel Ali in the United Arab Emirates. He was trapped in the engine room when it caught fire. Crew members fought the fire but eventually abandoned ship, according to Vanguard, a maritime security company. His family later learned he had died in the attack. The past week has been one of the deadliest in commercial shipping since the beginning of the U.S.-Iran war. At least three seafarers have died, and more than a dozen have been injured. In total at least 17 seafarers have lost their lives since the war began, according to the International Maritime Organization.The current phase of the conflict has concentrated in waters of the Persian Gulf, with supremacy over navigation the focal point for attacks from both sides. Iran says that it retains sole charge of the flow of ships. The U.S. has responded by reimposing a naval blockade on Iranian ports.Seafarers who operate the ships that get goods and energy to everyday consumers around the world are caught in the crossfire. Iran is using more-lethal missiles than before and targeting ships farther from the strait. The U.S. on Wednesday pounded an Iranian vessel steaming toward Iran’s oil hub on Kharg Island, the first American hit on a commercial ship since the signing of the memorandum of understanding in mid-June. The U.S. boarded another tanker on Thursday as part of the blockade.Traffic through the Strait of Hormuz has once again slowed to a trickle.The number of transits fell to eight on Thursday, the lowest level in three weeks, according to ship-tracking firm Kpler. Half of those vessels were Iranian-flagged. All but one went through an Iranian-controlled route that swings near the country’s coastline. By comparison, last week, an average of 30 vessels a day crossed the strait using a combination of routes, still below the roughly 130 crossings a day before the war. Other ships attacked this week include two oil tankers operated by a subsidiary of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., Mombasa B and Al Bahyah, which were hit by cruise missiles, causing at least one fatality and 14 injuries, according to the International Maritime Organization.Tehran has attacked commercial vessels on and off throughout the conflict, often when it felt its influence over the Gulf was being challenged. The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, a paramilitary arm of the regime, has mostly used one-way drones or other short-range projectiles launched from fastboats or from the coastline.These caused damage to vessels but often resulted in no seafarer injuries or fatalities. Some ships, such as the Singapore-flagged cargo ship Ever Lovely and Panama-flagged crude oil tanker Kiku, continued sailing after being hit.Iran’s use of cruise missiles in recent days has increased the damage.“The recent U.S. attacks on IRGC coastal targets has made it more difficult to launch drones,” said Chris Long, head of intelligence at maritime security firm Neptune P2P. But “cruise missiles can be launched from further inland,” he said. Satellite images show fastboats have been hit hard by U.S. attacks.Two cruise missiles were used by the Revolutionary Guard in attacks on the two Emirati oil tankers over the weekend, the U.A.E Defense Ministry said. One was also used on Karmarkar’s ship.The strikes’ modus operandi was unusual, according to one current and one former regional security official. Iran’s antiship cruise missiles are generally long-range—able to strike across 217 miles while remaining accurate. But they are also less disposable than other weapons, among the costliest in Iran’s arsenal to produce. Their solid fuel relies on chemicals imported from China that Iran only possesses in limited quantities, they say.Ship crewing companies have been paying seafarers premiums for working in the Gulf, often doubling pay to pass through the strait. But with thousands of sailors stuck in the Gulf for months and the death toll increasing, some are reaching a breaking point.Crew members weren’t happy to go through the strait no matter what was promised to them, said Dimitris Maniatis, founder and chief executive officer of maritime risk company Marisks. Fear dominates. “It’s not about money anymore or some higher callings,” he said.India is home to thousands of seafarers who work on ships around the world, often for months at a time.The Directorate General of Maritime Administration, an Indian government body responsible for seafarer welfare, advised companies on Wednesday not to deploy Indian crew members on vessels going through the Strait of Hormuz until further orders.On Karmarkar’s ship, the GFS Galaxy, the fire was contained to the engine room and a team of firefighters was sent to extinguish it on Monday, said the person familiar with the ship’s situation. The vessel was then towed toward Khor Fakkan in the U.A.E., the person said.The ship’s manager, Dubai-based Global Feeder Shipping, didn’t respond to requests for comment.Vevek Tandoan, Karmarkar’s father-in-law, said the company sent the family condolences midweek, and that it was coordinating with the Omani navy and Indian Consulate in Dubai to return Karmarkar’s remains.Write to Rebecca Feng at rebecca.feng@wsj.com and Benoit Faucon at benoit.faucon@wsj.com

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ice-agents-need-body-cameras-101784369901923.html
Article information: Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s decision to deploy body cameras after two controversial shootings is welcome—and, let’s hope, not too late. Local law enforcement learned a lesson the technology’s champions never expected: The cameras that activists demanded to catch cops in the act have more often cleared them of wrongdoing.The latest fatal shootings, in Houston and Maine, provoked outrage. Activists paint ICE agents as rogues who shoot first and cover up later. Homeland Security officials say the agents fired in self-defense. We can’t be certain, because the evidence in both incidents is murky. The agents on the scene attest to one set of facts; some witnesses swear the opposite. Real-time footage offers only snippets of the encounters—distant, obstructed views that mainly confirm whatever the viewer already believed.Body cameras, which are deployed by nearly every major state and local law-enforcement agency, could help settle the question. Worn on officers’ chests, the devices record a first-person view of every encounter in real time and upload it to the cloud for later review.After the 2014 death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., and other high-profile police killings, activists demanded that departments adopt the cameras. They framed the technology as fostering accountability and transparency, confident it would expose widespread misconduct and excessive force. They were right about the transparency. They were mostly wrong about the rest.Less than half of general-purpose law-enforcement agencies had acquired body cameras in 2016, and many hadn’t equipped front-line officers with them. Adoption was more widespread in big cities, but rules and deployment were uneven. Progressive politicians and activists pushed for the cameras, and their calls grew louder after George Floyd’s death in 2020. Some in law enforcement resisted the devices as unnecessary and expensive, but lawmakers and public pressure won out. By 2023, a survey found that 82% of police departments used them. Most major cities now require them under clear rules governing activation, storage, review and release.Body-camera footage hasn’t produced evidence of systemic misconduct or racial abuse. In some cases, it held officers accountable in ways once impossible, supplying indisputable evidence of wrongdoing. But in far more cases—especially controversial shootings—it captured the chain of events clearly enough for investigators to exonerate officers.In Columbus, Ohio, the 2021 police shooting of 16-year-old Ma’Khia Bryant sparked protests—until the department within hours released body-camera footage showing that she was armed with a knife and lunging at a bystander when the officer fired. The video ended the controversy and established that the use of force was justified. The speed of the release mattered as much as the footage itself.The cameras also make everyday policing better. Researchers have described a “civilizing effect” on officers and civilians alike, who know their conduct is being recorded and can be reviewed. Studies have found that camera-equipped officers make more arrests and draw fewer complaints than their unequipped colleagues, while other research suggests they use force less often. The relationship isn’t necessarily causal, but increased use of body cameras has tracked rising public confidence in law enforcement.ICE is neither moving fast enough nor going far enough. After the two fatal encounters, congressional Democrats demanded body cameras be mandated for all agents as part of an ICE reform package. The Trump administration agreed but still hasn’t fully deployed the equipment. The Department of Homeland Security announced it will distribute body cameras more widely, but committed to equip only one agent on each arrest team, at least initially. That won’t silence critics or yield definitive evidence. More angles give the public and investigators a comprehensive view of events—and confidence that they have all the available facts.DHS should equip every front-line agent with a body camera. It should also adopt a clear policy requiring the timely release of footage, subject only to legitimate safety, privacy and investigative concerns. Doing so would strengthen public confidence, improve accountability and ensure that misconduct claims are measured against objective evidence rather than dueling narratives.Body cameras are an indispensable law-enforcement tool, and the public rightly views them as essential to transparency and accountability. But a decade of footage has taught an unexpected lesson: The cameras protect officers from false allegations more often than they expose real wrongdoing. ICE agents deserve that protection—and the public deserves the truth.Mr. Johnson is president of the Law Enforcement Legal Defense Fund.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-fastest-growing-risk-to-air-travel-is-probably-in-your-pocket-101784367665007.html
Article information: Minutes after Alaska Airlines Flight 2117 had lifted from the runway, a phone and power bank sitting in a passenger’s lap burst into flames.The fire scorched the passenger’s arms and legs before she tossed the devices into the aisle, where flight attendants scrambled to get them into a fireproof bag to quell the blaze. Pilots declared an emergency, dropped oxygen masks in the cabin, and turned back to Wichita, Kan.The incident from earlier this year is just one example of what airlines and regulators say is the fastest-growing safety threat to air travel—phones, power banks and vapes spontaneously catching fire midflight.Those and other personal devices have lithium-ion batteries, which are prone to bursting into flames when they malfunction or overheat. While the threat isn’t new, the industry’s assessment of the risks has heightened as passengers bring more devices onboard.“This is a critical safety area,” said Hassan Shahidi, chief executive of the Flight Safety Foundation, a nonprofit. “We’ve seen over the years an increasing number of these incidents.”In the U.S., incidents have more than doubled since 2019, according to Federal Aviation Administration data. Figures for 2026 are on track to surpass last year’s record, with roughly two confirmed events recorded each week since January.In recent months, airlines across the globe rolled out new rules aimed at reducing the risk of cabin fires ahead of the peak summer season. American Airlines, Delta and Southwest have all banned power banks from overhead lockers and restricted their use in-flight. Germany’s Lufthansa, Hong Kong’s Cathay Pacific and Singapore Airlines have taken similar steps.Aviation regulators have also issued guidelines to flight crews and sought to raise awareness of the dangers among passengers.“It really is one of the top, if not the top, safety risks in the world right now,” said Jonathan Nicholson, a spokesman for the U.K. Civil Aviation Authority. “Even a low-level incident could develop into something far more serious.”Britain recorded more than 100 incidents of devices overheating last year, a 98% surge compared with 2024, the country’s aviation regulator said.Efforts to prevent this from happening gained urgency after an Air Busan flight in South Korea last year was consumed by a fire caused by a power bank in an overhead bin. Twenty-seven people suffered injuries and the aircraft was destroyed.The incident spurred regulators to introduce a spate of new rules and procedures. Those included a ban on e-cigarettes and power banks in checked luggage, as well as restrictions on the use of portable batteries onboard.While most cabin fires are quickly extinguished, overheating incidents are now frequently disrupting flights.In April, an SAS flight returned to Aberdeen, Scotland, shortly after takeoff after a laptop caught fire. In May, a Newark-bound United Airlines flight was diverted to London after a power bank burst into flames, and last month a cellphone erupted aboard a British Airways flight to Las Vegas, damaging the cabin and terrifying passengers.“We’ve had a fire in the cabin; it was a mobile phone that scorched the inside of the cabin,” a pilot on board the BA flight radioed to air-traffic controllers. “We’re trying to keep the panic to a minimum.”Devices are at most risk when they are overcharged, malfunctioning or damaged, which can cause components to break down and release excess heat. This triggers a process called thermal runaway, where rapidly rising temperatures cause the battery to spontaneously combust.The problem is getting worse for airlines because passengers are increasingly traveling with more electronic devices—typically four to five each, regulators say. That means more than 2,000 fire-prone items could be on board a high-capacity long-haul flight.Changing habits are contributing to the hazard. More travelers now bypass in-flight entertainment systems for their own screens. They are also more reliant on their mobile devices to navigate airports, order food and drinks onboard, and book taxis after landing.Concerns about running out of battery have spurred the use of power banks, with the risk compounded by the rise of e-cigarettes. Vapes triggered about 28% of overheating incidents last year, according to the Thermal Runaway Incident Program database. Power banks and cellphones were each responsible for about a fifth of incidents.“The advent of power banks, which everybody has now, and e-cigarettes, have basically doubled the amount of lithium onboard aircraft,” said Nick Careen, head of operations, safety and security at the International Air Transport Association, an industry group. “It’s not just a phone and a laptop; now it’s all of these things on top of it.”Fires that start below deck pose a potentially higher risk of catastrophe. That is because cabin crews, who are trained to quickly extinguish a fire, can’t access cargo midflight. While most commercial jets are equipped with fire suppression systems in the hold, those are primarily designed to slow a blaze, not extinguish it entirely.In 2010, a UPS cargo plane carrying more than 80,000 lithium batteries crashed after the shipment caught fire. Within four minutes the blaze had burned through the aircraft’s flight controls, leaving the pilots unable to control the jet manually.On commercial flights, the risk from cargo is twofold: passengers who have mistakenly packed a lithium battery in their checked luggage, and retailers shipping electronics without using mandated fire-safe packaging.In the U.S., incidents in the cargo hold have risen 40% between 2021 and 2025, according to the Thermal Runaway Incident Program database. Roughly 25% of all air cargo in the U.S. travels in the belly of commercial passenger jets, routinely exposing passengers to fire-prone shipments.Write to Julia Amann at julia.amann@wsj.com and Benjamin Katz at ben.katz@wsj.com

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tours-of-british-post-war-housing-are-a-quiet-hit-101784303942442.html
Article information: Langham House Close is the sort of place often passed without a second look. A cluster of low apartment blocks of sandy brick and exposed concrete slabs, it is tucked behind a much grander Georgian mansion which gives it its name. But to the informed visitor, brought by their paper walking guide to the suburb of Ham in south-west London, it reveals architectural genius. “Note the jutting concrete ‘gargoyles’, inspired by Le Corbusier’s Maison Jaoul,” the guide instructs, of the at-first-glance unremarkable gutter spouts. This was an early work of James Stirling and James Gowan, who would become stars of post-war architecture. Finished in 1958, its style became known as “new brutalism” and inspired a generation of British housing.Finding the poetry in buildings for years dismissed as totalitarian, or plain ugly, is the work of “Perambulations”, a series of walking tours of modernist homes. Their quiet success reflects a wider rehabilitation of ideas about architecture found across the rich world in the decades after the second world war. “Perambulations” started as a pandemic project of Stefi Orazi, a graphic designer, who logged her daily walks around north London’s modernist houses on social media. Set to two sides of paper, a first print run quickly sold out. The series is now on its 30th issue, with more than 40,000 copies sold.Her typical self-guided tour takes in a couple of dozen properties, mostly in London but also Cambridge, Berlin, Brussels and Paris. Some stops are famous, now found on tea towels and posters. They include the Trellick Tower (in guide number 9), a brutalist monolith in west London designed by Erno Goldfinger. Ian Fleming, an author, so disliked the family home he built in Willow Road, Hampstead (guide no 2), that he immortalised the architect as the villain of a James Bond novel.Others are the early works of future superstars, such as a modest row of mews houses in Kentish Town by Norman Foster and Richard Rogers, who would go on to redraw the skylines of Europe. But the most interesting are the family homes commissioned by middle-class doctors and academics from largely forgotten architects. Ms Orazi’s aim, in part, was to create a historical record. She scours council archives for original plans. “I sometimes think, if I don’t write about them, maybe they never will be [written about].”Britons enjoy nosying at the homes of their neighbours. But another attraction is the guides’ old-fashioned rigour, an antidote to the age of Instagram. They are printed in two-tone ink with small photographs and dense text. Note, they instruct, how the house numbers are set into the brickwork, and the shape of the decorative lintels. Readers who do not know their pilotis from their paviours soon learn.Interest in post-war architecture picked up a decade ago as people became worried about the scale of Britain’s current housing shortage, reckons Ms Orazi. The haste to rebuild bombed-out British cities created a legion of opponents; it increasingly looks like a feat worth replicating. For those struggling to raise a deposit for a flat, peering at a family home in north London might produce the same vicarious daydreams as a tour of a country estate.The pleasure of perambulationThere is, naturally, a lot of concrete. But it is not all drab. Take the Alexandra Road estate in Swiss Cottage. Palms and lush climbers spill over the terraced balconies; on a hot July day you might be in Caracas. Or Parkleys, in Ham, built by Eric Lyons’s firm, Span, in the 1950s. The freshly painted olive-green panels, red hung tiling and angular white canopies over the footpaths are as jaunty as if they were made from Lego.For traditionalists like King Charles, modernist architecture was oppressive, attempting to override the “inner world of humanity” with machine-like rationalism, as he once put it. The architects saw it otherwise: their buildings were stripped of ornamentation precisely because they prioritised the people inside them. Ms Orazi’s own home in north London, built in the 1970s to designs by Gordon Benson and Alan Forsyth (guide no 3), gives little away on the outside: a long, white building with narrow windows like the slots of a pillbox. But inside the apartments are airy, with split-level floors and huge skylights. “They were designing from the inside out,” she says. “The outside is just a consequence of trying to rationalise the inside.”There were remarkable opportunities for young architects. Peter Tabori, a Hungarian émigré, was 28 when he was put in charge of Highgate New Town, in north London, which resembles a Tuscan hill town. Nearby is 62 Camden Mews, the family home of Ted Cullinan, an architect (guide no 15). He built it at weekends on a scrap of derelict land with the help of friends; bricks were salvaged from his day job working for Denys Lasdun, the designer of the National Theatre. With heavy black timber frames, angular eves, a shaded courtyard and entry to the upper floor over something resembling a drawbridge, it is a tranquil pocket of Kyoto on a London backstreet. A smartly positioned letter box drops the Sunday papers into the adults’ bedroom. It sold for more than £900,000 ($1.2m) last year.Today’s planning system might have suffocated it at birth. Loaded with bureaucracy and vetoes, it rewards safety-firstism, and deters experimentation. It is intended to prevent clunkers; it also weeds out genius. But when cities are free to build, they will often produce delights.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-iran-war-news-live-updates-attacks-bridges-railway-station-airport-qatar-kuwait-bahrain-trump-araghchi-hormuz-strait-101784252701374.html
Article information: US-Iran war highlights: The United States expanded its airstrikes against Iran early Friday as it targeted civilian infrastructure, hitting bridges and railway stations. Two bridges in Iran’s Khamir County were struck, the Geryveh Bridge and the Kahurestan Bridge, linking Bandar Abbas to Shiraz, CNN reported citing local media.Track fresh updates on US-Iran war hereA railway station was also hit according to semi-official Fars News Agency. Power lines in Iran’s Bandar Abbas and surrounding villages were also damaged, prompting leaders to urge citizens to limit the use of air conditioning. At least seven people were killed in Iran after fresh US strikes hit the southern part of the country, AP reported.US central command said they conducted a new wave of strikes against Iran for the sixth consecutive night to further degrade Iranian military capabilities. Iran has responded by attacking US bases in the Gulf.Qatar's defence ministry said its armed forces intercepted an Iranian missile attack early on Friday, while the interior ministry said a child was injured by shrapnel from the interception.In a post on X, the interior ministry confirmed that one child sustained an injury due to falling shrapnel resulting from interception operations, and is currently receiving the necessary medical care.Will the Red Sea oil route be closed?Iran has asked its ally, Yemen Houthis, to be ready to close the Red Sea oil route if the United States strikes Iranian power infrastructure, three sources told Reuters on Thursday.The sources said the Houthis had been informed recently of Tehran's request, which has not been previously reported.Oil prices have rallied up after US and Iran stepped up attacks across the Gulf, with their broken truce limiting oil flows out of the Strait of Hormuz.Brent crude futures rose $1.05, or about 1.25%, to $85.28 a barrel by 0118 GMT, and U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures rose $1.03, or 1.3%, to $79.98 a barrel, erasing losses from the previous session, Reuters reported.

link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-iran-war-news-live-updates-strait-hormuz-israel-trump-brent-crude-oil-price-today-missile-drone-strike-uae-bahrain-101784338898179.html
Article information: US-Iran news LIVE: A fire broke out at a power generation and water desalination plant in Kuwait after an Iranian attack, the country's Electricity, Water and Renewable Energy Ministry said on Saturday, adding that several power generation units were shut down.It said efforts were under way to contain the fire and carry out repairs.Iran Guards on Saturday said it struck US combat aircraft site at Sheikh Isa airbase in Bahrain, Tasnim News Agency reported.Jordan's armed forces intercepted 10 missiles from Iran on Saturday morning, Jordanian media reported.Iran said Saturday that two oil tankers transiting through the Strait of Hormuz hit mines and exploded, though the US military has disputed the claim.Sirens went off in Bahrain as Iran and the US continued exchanging strikes in the Middle East for nearly a week now. Iran also said that it targeted US military facilities in Jordan, Kuwait and Bahrain in a fresh wave of retaliatory attacks, hours after US Central Command (CENTCOM) announced its seventh consecutive night of strikes.Iran says three killed in fresh strikesAs bombing intensified in the region, Iran said three people were killed in US strikes.Hormuz tensions flareIran's Revolutionary Guards said Saturday that two oil tankers directed by "deceptive American intelligence agencies" exploded after hitting mines in the Strait of Hormuz, which the US military quickly denied.The Revolutionary Guards also said on state television they "stopped" four ships trying to transit the critical waterway.US says attacks continue to degrade Iran's military capabilitiesUS forces, meanwhile, reported striking Iran with attacks designed to "continue degrading Iranian military capabilities," according to a statement by US Central Command shared on X.In the biggest escalation since the foes resumed hostilities, Iran accused US forces of targeting civilian infrastructure, including an airport, a railway station and two bridges, and said it had struck US assets across the region.

